latex input:	mmd-article-header  
latex input:	ftp-metadata 
Title:	Comp Skills lecture for 2016-10-04
Date:	2016-10-04
Base Header Level:	2  
latex mode:	article  
Keywords:	MultiMarkdown, Markdown, XML, XHTML, XSLT, PDF   
copyright:	2016 James A. Foster  
	This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.  
	http:	//creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/  
htmlheader:	<script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>
latex input:	mmd-natbib-plain
latex input:	mmd-article-begin-doc  
latex footer:	mmd-article-footer  

# Notes for 2016-10-04 #
## Objectives ##
Watch me walk through an assignment, HW4. 
## Tips ##
Think of a program like a paper where:

* If you misspell a word the paper catches on fire
* You *can* say silly things, but shouldn't
* The paper is written for an idiot (the computer)
* You can reference other papers and assume the reader has read (and memorized) them. 

To write a program:

1. understand what the program should do
2. write an outline
3. write one good paragraph at a time

		a. each "paragraph" says *one thing only*
		b. first sentence, topic sentence, of each paragraph (the comment) says ONE thing
		c. test each paragraph carefully, by itself, with data you understand
		d. if you'll use this paragraph more than once, turn it into a function (and test the function separately)
		e. Be sure flow of paragraphs follows your outline (or change outline)

4. Use a good introduction:

		a. Comments: what the program does, who wrote it, when, how to get help
		b. imports go at the top
		c. then function definitions (written and tested individually, named well, commented) 

5. Methods section: the body of the code

		a. clear enough to be reproducible (good variable/object names)
		b. enough white space to be pretty
		c. not too long (use external modules if necessary)

6. Edit the final paper 

		a. Do the analysis: prepare test cases that you understand for program as a whole
		b. get an outside reader: code walkthrough
		c. edit so that the paper reads like one thing (test it as a whole)
		d. look for, avoid, possible reader misunderstandings: harder the code by checking for and handling possible errors

7. Rewrite: if you have time, and the program is correct, look for opportunities to be more elegant or efficient

		a. Add new functions if necessary
		b. look for awkward, convoluted expressions and simplify 
		c. look for inefficiencies, where the reader will get bogged down (%profile)
		d. try out possible alternatives that might be more efficient (%timeit)

### To Become a Better Programmer ###

Same as with becoming a better writer:

1. read other people's code, asking:

		a. why did they put this here? why this name?
		b. Why is the code in this order?
		c. is the "paper" (the code) clear, concise, understandable?
		d. is it clear what the "paper" says: do you know what the program does?
		e. do the conclusions follow from the premises: does the program do what it is supposed to?
		f. how might you make this better?
		g. how might you make this worse?

2. read good stuff about writing. for example, check this out: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zen_of_Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zen_of_Python)

2. write write write

3. have other people read/criticize your code

4. ask someone to break your code

3. publish publish publish